A cycle of quantitative and qualitative data is often observed in product management.
First, analyzing usage data, conversion funnels,
and other quantitative data collected by a product can
reveal users or areas that are under, or overperforming.
Next, upon seeing a problem with quantitative analysis,
product managers then turn to user interviews or
other qualitative data techniques to understand why such trends might be occurring.
By combining the power of quantitative and qualitative data,
a product manager is equipped to hypothesize
why a trend is occurring and what change could address it.
The product manager can then run experiments to confirm the hypothesis.
As the product manager reviews the quantitative data
associated with the experiment, the cycle restarts.
Consider the example in the last section of an app who's
usage began to go down among 18-25-year-olds.
First, the quantitative data of app usage
revealed the trend and the severity of the decline in app usage.
Second, the qualitative data produced from user interviews help product managers
understand why the decline might be occurring
because younger users wanted the video chat option.
Together, the data could lead a product manager to ideas about how to increase usage,
such as introducing a new video chat feature.
Finally, by running an experiment,
a product manager could confirm the validity of the hypothesis.
The cycle of qualitative and quantitative data is ongoing.
For a data product manager at any given time,
multiple versions of this cycle might be running
in different stages for different parts of the product.
This is because the cycle is itself part of
iterative design and the cycle of design thinking.
When we discussed the design thinking cycle in lesson 1,
we learned that there are three stages and six steps in the cycle.
Let's revisit these stages and steps with a focus on what type of data,
qualitative or quantitative, is most likely to be useful.
The first stage in the cycle is understanding users.
This includes empathizing with users by researching their wants and needs.
During the understand stage,
and especially in the empathize stage,
qualitative research is often employed because
understanding a user's wants and needs requires qualitative data.
By speaking with customers or potential customers,
product managers and researchers can gather
the qualitative data that allows them to empathize with the user.
After the empathize step,
the next step is defined or combining all research to define a user's problems.
When defining a problem,
qualitative and quantitative data might both be considered,
especially if a product manager is improving an existing product by looking at
usage data and combining this with qualitative data gathered at the empathize step.
A product manager can start to narrow down the problem they're looking to solve.
After the understand stage,
comes the explorer stage,
which is where different ideas for meeting a user's needs are explored.
The first step in explore is ideation,
which is when product managers and designers can think broadly and generate
a large list of potential ideas that they might build to meet the user needs.
Once many ideas have been generated,
a few that seem like a best fit can be prototyped.
The time spent in the prototype stage usually
directly correlates to the size of the proposed change.
Then it enters the materialized phase.
The first step in the materialize phase is to test the change.
The testing phase may include getting feedback on the prototype
from actual users through focus groups and usability testing.
By observing actual users interact with a prototype,
product managers and designers can get data that allows
them to make adjustments to a new feature before going live.
After usability testing or if the change is a smaller, simple one,
the testing step includes
running experiments by exposing some live users to the new feature.
These tests include A/B tests or multivariate tests,
which we'll explore further in the next lesson.
By testing the feature with live users,
product managers can use quantitative data to
confirm the effect of the new feature on the product, KPIs.
Finally, after testing the new designer feature is implemented for all users.
With the feature launched,
a product manager can continue to analyze usage data,
conversion funnels, and other quantitative information
to find users or areas that are under and overperforming.
With this, the cycle begins again.
Throughout the cycle, product managers leverage
qualitative and quantitative data to drive
the creation of the most appealing product for users.
By following the complete cycle and gathering
qualitative data to understand the quantitative trends observed,
the solutions the product management team proposes
are likely to be more successful because they will be
targeted to address the users motivations and feelings
instead of addressing and assume problem that may not exist.